Congratulations on making it to the end of this section this lesson is going to be all about applying
what we've learned in the previous lessons and taking some action and making things happen using javascript.
So we're going to be creating an h him l file as well as Janus file or javascript file.
So that's going to be the first action that I want you to take it with in this exercise.
So create both of these files.
And of course that each team will file it doesn't have to be very elaborate.
It can be a very simple simple template.
And then the javascript file always remember that you just need to call it Dot G.
So the h t m l as they passed him L is h t m l the javascript is dot g as.
So the next thing is I want you to apply some javascript into that aged him L and I want you to set
up an output a welcome message to the page.
So something that says Welcome to the page.
Next have a pop up that says hello.
And then lastly I put information into the console that the code actually worked and ran.
And if you want to get really creative make sure you add in some comments along the way on your thoughts
and notes as the script is being executed.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and I'm going to show you the solution.
Starting Up next
so I hope you had an opportunity to try out this exercise because it is really important when you're
learning javascript to try it for yourself and get familiar with the syntax that we're using in order
to write code.
So now I'm going to show you the solution.
So the first thing was to create an H Tim L and a javascript file and actually am cheating a little
bit because I already have an age to mail and a javascript file but you can go ahead and make sure you
do create these on your own system.
So next step was to add a welcome message that prints to each time a file.
So what we need to do is we need to link our javascript file to our HVM L and the way that we're going
to do that is using the script tag.
And we need to specify the source.
So wherever your file is located then make sure that you're linking to that file.
Next we want to specify the type.
And as mentioned earlier this is something that you don't necessarily need to do but you can include
Furthermore for the older browsers so that they can to also render this javascript but as we know modern
browsers it's not necessary.
So now save that index each each team out.
And now you can go over to your javascript file.
So open that up and the first order of business was to write a welcome message that prints out in each
to mail.
And we saw that we can do that using a document right now.
And although as you progress this course I can assure you a much better way to do this.
But for now let's do something like welcome to my site and close that off with a semi-colon and the
next thing that we want to do is we want to maybe add in some comments pop up message.
And next we want to do over here we want to add in console message.
So those are the two actions that we still need to undertake.
So now let's go into the pop up message and the way that we did that was with the alert function.
So we wanted to just have an alert that said Hello.
So we can go ahead and type that in there.
And then lastly let's actually refresh the page and see how far we've got with all of the action items
we see we've got the halo message we've got we've got Welcome to my site.
So not lastly we want to be able to take a look within the console and we want to have another message
out there that it actually worked and it ran.
So basically we didn't run into any errors.
Everything went smoothly.
So I'm going to type out it worked and then we'll go back and refresh the browser and open up that console
and we see that we've got the last auction item it worked being displayed within our console log
so do try it for yourself.
Experiment a little bit try out different syntax and different ways of bringing that code into your
Each team.
Try it all.
What you've learned in the previous lessons and the coming section is going to get a whole lot more
interesting because I'm going to show you the real power of Javascript.
So that's coming up in the next section.